================
APEX Boot Loader
 README_region
================

APEX uses a common notation when describing regions of memory, data
sources, and data sinks.  While similar to the way that the kernel
refers to regions of memory, the APEX notation is not compatible with
the kernel form.

  [DRIVER:][@]START[+LENGTH]

The DRIVER is the name of an IO driver that handles the requests.
Without an explicit driver, the 'memory:' driver is the default.
Driver names may be shortened to any unambiguous prefix.  If there is
only one driver that begins with the letter 'm', then 'm:' uniquely
identifies that driver.  If there are two nor drivers, APEX will
require a driver name long enough to distinguish which one to use.
The command 'drvinfo' lists the available drivers.

The START address is the beginning of the region relative to the
driver's domain.  In the case of the memory driver, this is the start
of addressable memory.  For other devices such as flash memory, the
first memory location in the device is zero.  Thus, for a flash part
mapped at 0x40000000, nor:0 to the first byte at physical address
0x40000000.

The LENGTH is a count of bytes.  It may be omitted when the length is
either self-evident or when there is a reasonable default.  For
example, when dumping a region, the default length is 64.  When
erasing flash, the default length is 1.  The marker '+' replaces the
original '#' which is deprecated though still supported.  The #
character is more useful as a comment character.

START and LENGTH may be specifed as a decimal number, a hexadecimal
number, and may followed by a suffix 'm' for for megabytes (1024*1024)
or 'k' for kilobytes (1024).

  nor:16k+4k	 - 4096 bytes, 16384 bytes from the start of NOR flash
  nand:0	 - Starting with the first byte using the only NAND driver
  nand-eb501:0   - Starting with the first byte using a specific NAND driver

